full commit for PR (#1)
fredcarle/int-fullstack-fred: int-fullstack-fred.md

Using the command line, ftp clients or the S3 console doesn't make for the best user experience. As such, we are looking to implement an application that has an intuitive UI. This will allow the widest range of users to use our service and thus potentially increasing our user base.

We also know that there is a large demand from developers to integrate our service within their app. Implementing this application will give us an opportunity to plan for a future public API. 

## Details

### Stack: Frontend

There is a requirement to use React with React Router for this project. This is what we will be using.

Since this is a prototype, we will try to minimize the use of custom CSS by employing MUI as our design system. The tradeoff here will be a lack of control over our components but with the advantage of accelerated prototype development.

The team seems to prefer Yarn as the package manager so we will honour that choice.

### Stack: Backend

We will be using Go for our backend language. No framework will be used as the standard library has almost everything we need to build this prototype. Possibly only 3 external packages will be used. More on this later.

> We are asked to containerize our application using Docker. We will do so since it is a requirement but note that because our application does not have non-Go dependencies (C based libraries or other 3rd party packages and software that would induce cross-compilation and setup complexities), this is extra overhead. Fear not, this is for a good cause :)

Reviewer: Are you implying that containerizing workloads is only useful for applications with non-Go dependencies? If so, I'm not sure I understand.

Author: Not that it's not useful. If we had a application infrastructure orchestrated by Kubernetes or something like that, it would make sense to setup our application as a docker container. Also you could have a specific version of Go used for the application so under development it could be useful to ensure all devs are using the same version. There are certainly more example where it could be useful. Some security advantages come to mind. All I'm saying here is that for a small prototype application that will basically be a single executable with a few assets, setting up docker is extra overhead. 

I think all this is debatable and subjective based on company SOPs. Great question though :)

Reviewer 2: Don't you have to use `npm` for React? The benefit for Docker is so we can easily build/run your application without having to install/configure `npm` locally.

### API

The application will need a few endpoint to implement all the functionalities. The base path will be `https://localhost:3000/api/v1` with the following endpoints:

> | Endpoint      | Description                                                    |

Reviewer: Mind adding the method to this table as well?

Author: oh yes good point

Also, a JWT token will be returned with the successful login response as a cookie. That cookie and token will then be used on subsequent requests to authorize access. If a user logs in with a different browser/device, the previous session will be nullified and the user will have to re-authenticate if returning to the previous browser/device. The token and session will also be limited in time to ten minutes. If a request is sent with less than five minutes left for the token and session, a new token will be created and the session will renew for another ten minutes.

*We will use `github.com/golang-jwt/jwt` to help with creating and verifying the JWT token and we will use `github.com/rs/xid` to help with unique IDs*

### Security: Password storage

To securely store passwords, we will use Provos and Mazières's bcrypt adaptive hashing algorithm `golang.org/x/crypto/bcrypt`. It is highly regarded as one of the safest password storage solutions and removes the necessity to store salts.

> *Note that user names and passwords will be stored in a map once again for simplicity and to reduce dependencies for this prototype*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note that user names and password hashes will be stored in a map once again for simplicity and to reduce dependencies for this prototype*
```

Let's be super clear that you are not storing plain text passwords.

### Security: CSRF and XSS

In the case of this prototype, only the login form really needs to be CSRF aware. This means that whenever the form is loaded, we will return a CSRF token and this token will then be sent with the login request via the `anti-csrf-token` header.

The search and file size filter fields aren't vectors for CSRF attack since they only modify the URL params but the values should still be sanitized server side to prevent XSS type attacks.

### Security: TLS

All requests will be served over HTTPS. Any request using HTTP will be redirected to be converted to an HTTPS request.

The certificate and key files will be generated when the application is first launched.

> 

Reviewer: A `### Security: Filesystem` section would also be helpful.

How do you plan to protect against `curl localhost:3000/api/v1/browse/../../../../etc/passwd` for example?

Author: Done

Reviewer: `filepath.Clean` is still going to allow traversal: https://go.dev/play/p/hU99qJMAvnn

Author: Not if used like this: https://go.dev/play/p/iHqvw4GEZsj

Reviewer: That's even worse, as it essentially allows access to the entire filesystem.

What I'm looking for is some mention of making sure that the server is given a "root" path and doesn't expose information outside that root to the client.

Author: You're absolutely right if it's used on its own. Although I wouldn't expect it to be that way when going to the specific implementation details. I do understand your point that it would be important to add such details in a design document if a less experienced dev was to work on the implementation (or even to ensure an experienced dev doesn't forget bout it). Also a good example of a useful utilisation of docker (define the client root path for user files that is not the app root). Here is the implementation: https://go.dev/play/p/Gy0dRUHVcIJ

I'll update the design document accordingly.

### Components: Login

> Access to the directory content should be protected and available to authenticated users only. When users first open the app, they should be presented with a login screen. Users that have tried accessing a bookmarked URL will need to be redirected to the login page if not already logged in and taken back to the original requested URL on successful login.

Reviewer: I would find it helpful if we could add a few more details on:

- How do you plan to redirect unauthenticated users to the login page?
- How do you plan to redirect the user back to the URL they initially requested after a successful login?

### API

The application will need a few endpoint to implement all the functionalities. The base path will be `https://localhost:3000/api/v1` with the following endpoints:

| Endpoint      | Method    | Description                                                    |
| ------------  | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| /auth/login   | POST      | Used authenticate the user                                     |
| /auth/logout  | POST      | Used to clear the user session                                 |
| /browse       | GET       | Used to access the root directory of the logged in user        |
| /browse/{*}   | GET       | Used to access subdirectories and files of the logged in user  |

### Security: Session

When a user is authenticated, we will store the session id of the user in a map. Although not ideal (lost of sessions on app restart, storage limitations, etc.), it will simplify our prototype and have the intended result.

> Also, a JWT token will be returned with the successful login response as a cookie. That cookie and token will then be used on subsequent requests to authorize access. If a user logs in with a different browser/device, the previous session will be nullified and the user will have to re-authenticate if returning to the previous browser/device. The token and session will also be limited in time to ten minutes. If a request is sent with less than five minutes left for the token and session, a new token will be created and the session will renew for another ten minutes.

Reviewer 2: When you say session store, do you mean client side in the browser? If so, the main issue with client side logout is that the user can not actually terminate a session in the face of a stolen session cookie/token.

> Also, a JWT token will be returned with the successful login response as a cookie. That cookie and token will then be used on subsequent requests to authorize access. If a user logs in with a different browser/device, the previous session will be nullified and the user will have to re-authenticate if returning to the previous browser/device. The token and session will also be limited in time to ten minutes. If a request is sent with less than five minutes left for the token and session, a new token will be created and the session will renew for another ten minutes.

Author: No I mean server side. I like to use something like Redis or other key value stores. A map will do the trick as well.

> Also, a JWT token will be returned with the successful login response as a cookie. That cookie and token will then be used on subsequent requests to authorize access. If a user logs in with a different browser/device, the previous session will be nullified and the user will have to re-authenticate if returning to the previous browser/device. The token and session will also be limited in time to ten minutes. If a request is sent with less than five minutes left for the token and session, a new token will be created and the session will renew for another ten minutes.

Reviewer 2: Great, but then the benefits for JWT are pretty minimal right? Just one less round trip, but the costs in terms of security that JWT imposes on you are high because getting JWT right is hard.

https://latacora.micro.blog/2018/06/12/a-childs-garden.html
https://www.okta.com/video/oktane19-cryptographic-wrong-answers/

Ultimately it's your challenge and up to you. It feels like your basically using JWT kind of like a bearer token anyway with expiration time as a light optimization for refresh?

> Also, a JWT token will be returned with the successful login response as a cookie. That cookie and token will then be used on subsequent requests to authorize access. If a user logs in with a different browser/device, the previous session will be nullified and the user will have to re-authenticate if returning to the previous browser/device. The token and session will also be limited in time to ten minutes. If a request is sent with less than five minutes left for the token and session, a new token will be created and the session will renew for another ten minutes.

Author: I remember diagonally reading the Latacora's article in 2018 but didn't register it in memory very much. My concerns must have been far from auth tokens at the time. Just reread it and it made me think a lot. Read the Oktane19 transcript as well and I remember doing research on ID tokens back in 2016 and the case for JWT seemed to be strong with the "implementation" excuse used quite a bit. I figured using HMAC as the alg and using it mostly as proof of origin with a few claims was fool proof. 

I agree that if we consider the potential drawbacks, the benefits are pretty minimal.

> It feels like your basically using JWT kind of like a bearer token

Yes indeed. And I like the pushback I'm getting on this. It's always good to reevaluate and be critical of assumptions and habits.

> Also, a JWT token will be returned with the successful login response as a cookie. That cookie and token will then be used on subsequent requests to authorize access. If a user logs in with a different browser/device, the previous session will be nullified and the user will have to re-authenticate if returning to the previous browser/device. The token and session will also be limited in time to ten minutes. If a request is sent with less than five minutes left for the token and session, a new token will be created and the session will renew for another ten minutes.

Reviewer 3: > If a user logs in with a different browser/device, the previous session will be nullified and the user will have to re-authenticate if returning to the previous browser/device.

What's the purpose behind this mechanism? There's many websites I visit every day using two or three devices and I'd strongly dislike having to log in to them every time I use a different device. ;) And I don't think the frontend challenge asks for such extra security measures.

Reviewer 3: > My reasoning is that Teleport takes security very seriously and although this is a basic app, I wanted to cover a range of different security measures.

I totally get the sentiment because I followed a similar train of thought when I was recruiting here. 😉 However, I'd say the challenge already tests how you approach several security-related topics and it is not asking specifically for such feature, nor could lack of it be considered a web security vulnerability. So in my opinion the feature of logging out the user from other devices can be safely dropped and it'll give you more time to focus on requirements that the challenge asks for.

It's good that you thought about verifying user's presence/supervision though, but still I think it warrants perhaps a short note in the RFD that such approach could be considered in the future, but I don't think there's need to work on it in this version.

*For the purpose of this challenge, we will omit the user registration and "forgot password" flows to save time. A default user will be created on application launch.*

![Login](./assets/login.png)

### Component: Header

The header component displays the app title in the upper left corner and the logged in user in the upper right corner. 

![Header](./assets/header.png)

Clicking on the user name will show a drop-down menu with the logout button.

![Logout](./assets/logout.png)

### Component: Breadcrumbs

The breadcrumbs component will display the users current location in the directory structure. Clicking on a given crumb will bring the user to the associated level in the directory structure.

![Breadcrumbs](./assets/breadcrumbs.png)

### Component: Data table

The data table is the main component of the application. It displays the returned directories and folders for a given path. Each row represents an item and displays its `name`, `size` and `type`. Directory type can omit the `size` value but files must display the `size` in a human readable format. The appropriate thousands prefix must be used.

> If the item is of type `file`, a bookmark icon should be displayed to the right of the file name to allow the user to bookmark the file for future quick navigation.

Reviewer 3: How is this bookmark feature going to work? Is this the thing you asked about on Slack? I think we can drop this feature, AFAIK the challenge only asks us to make it so that any given directory listing URL will always navigate the user to the same directory so that it's possible to bookmark the app's URLs.

Author: Yes that's what I was asking about. 

> Add the ability to bookmark URLs for quick navigation.

That's what the challenge states. That's why I though it had to be a feature and [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3024745/cross-browser-bookmark-add-to-favorites-javascript) is how I though I was going to implement it. Turns out modern browsers probably won't allow it.

I'll remove it from the design document.

The table headers for each column must be used as sorting buttons. On click, the selection should cycle through ASC, DESC and OFF and be additive in order of column importance from left to right.

![Data table](./assets/data-table-2.png)

### Component: Search filter

The search filter will allow a user to search for a filename or a file type. The request will be sent when the users stop typing for more than 2 seconds.

### Component: File size filter

> The size filter will provide an upper and lower bound for the file size of the files that are to be returned. Like the search filter, the request will be sent when the user stops typing for more than 2 seconds in either field.

Reviewer 3: What do you think about dropping those 2 seconds to something like 200-250 ms? I understand the need to not hammer the backend with unnecessary requests, but 2 seconds seems like a lot of time. A lower value would likely present a much better user experience while not increasing the number of requests that much, at least from my experience.

Author: My reasoning is that the auto submit is used to remove the need for a user to press a button or `return` key. Usually this happens once the user had a quick look at what he typed to ensure no typo or other mistake. So I feel like a second or two leaves time for the user to take a glance while also not taking too long. My impression is that 200-250ms might cause situations where the frontend updates a visually significant (lots of viewport space) component multiple times over a second or two and makes the app seem glitchy to a user. For me two seconds is a good starting point and then when doing UX optimization, we would try to find the right balance.

My opinion would be different if the component was doing server request for autocomplete/suggestion purposes.

That being said, I'm happy to go with 200-250ms as our starting point if you'd like.

Reviewer 3: > My impression is that 200-250ms might cause situations where the frontend updates a visually significant (lots of viewport space) component multiple times over a second or two and makes the app seem glitchy to a user. For me two seconds is a good starting point and then when doing UX optimization, we would try to find the right balance.

Makes sense to me, I'm okay with experimenting with it. It'll probably just be a one line change after all.

When a user is authenticated, we will store the session id of the user in a map. Although not ideal (lost of sessions on app restart, storage limitations, etc.), it will simplify our prototype and have the intended result.

> We will send that token back to the frontend as a cookie in the form of an opaque bearer token that is encrypted with AES. This will ensure that we can confirm that the cookie origin was our application.

Reviewer: Encrypted with what key?

Author: The encryption key will be generated the first time the app launches using `crypto/rand` :)

Reviewer 2: I don't think encryption is needed here.

With a large enough random number you can assume if someone has a valid token it was generated by your applications. The only place where I've found this type of identification really useful is to prevent DoS attacks where you want to check if you generated the token before you check in your database. For that, you usually see a HMAC used directly.

Since you won't have a database, I don't feel it's needed. My recommendation is to cut scope and implement less, your call.
